Ladies and gentlemen, Harmontown is now in session.
Oh, yes indeed.
Welcome you lucky sons of bitches to the Nerdmelt Theater in Hollywood, California.
And you send me lucky people listening on your whatever the fuck you listen to things on.
Please welcome the mayor of Harmontown, Mr. Dan Harmon.
Thank you very much.
Okay, so let me get weird tonight.
I didn't have anything and so I went through my office at home and I found this journal I wrote in high school.
And that's something that L.A. people do a lot, special shows and things.
You know, you read your embarrassing adolescent journals and stuff.
I thought, oh, that's ducks in a barrel.
You know, oh, Dan the nerd, like being a nerd and trying to be cool, but being a nerd, trying to be a good writer,
being a bad writer and I'll mock my teenage self and well, you know, the unspoken humble brag headline will be,
I'm so much cooler now, which is how I think it usually works when you read these things.
I started reading it and I got really bummed out.
Just devastated.
I want to say I was a vile person, but I mean it's just, I don't see the difference between this kid and myself.
And except that I just, I stopped trying to talk like Frasier all the time, which this kid at 15 is still doing.
And I also just stopped like trying to impress other people, including myself.
I kind of stopped posturing.
So it's just, it's just, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know what it is.
Erin was like, oh, this is very, I mean, this is all what's interesting and people that do those journal shows.
Erin said, they always read the wrong entries.
They always, you know, because they don't get it.
They don't understand what about their entries is, you know, is what we want to hear, you know, the shot in Freud of it all or whatever it is.
Well, now you're holding a spiral.
With 27 post-it notes.
Because I started marking, oh, I'll just read this and then I'll read that.
I want to paint the picture for people listening to this.
This is not like a little, you know, like a little velvet case, you know, like diary.
It's a standard spiral notebook.
How many of these did you have?
I found two of them.
This is the first one.
I was obsessed with transition.
So there's a lot of, there's a lot of chapters that happen to this.
And I bring the journal to a conclusion at 17.
I go, I'm done.
There's nothing more to say.
I'm self-actualized.
The title is Sand Pollution, The Journals of Dan Harmon.
November 1989 to September 1990.
Sand pollution?
Yes, I'm glad you asked.
I'll give you a taste of my voice at 15.
This is how I ended the first entry.
I won't bother to, I mean, I'll start.
November 27, 1989, 10.30 p.m.
A picture of me on like a bear mattress surrounded by just like probably just a lot of my own cum.
I can, I seem to recall not being able to stop touching myself physically or mentally
because no one else was going to do either job.
I was astooned with acne and I had a yin-yang patch on my acid watch denim jacket sleeve
because I was very into like Taoism and like exploring all religions and stuff.
I think that for the first time, I'm going to try not to read it in this voice
because I don't want to, I don't want to like, like, I'm just going to like just,
this hurts really bad but I'm not going to,
if you catch me starting to go like this, like to make fun of myself, like, oh, stop me.
I think that for the first time in my life, I consciously realized something today.
November 27 comes and goes with each identical year.
But today was the first and last 11, 27, 89 I would ever experience.
Absolutely nothing extraordinary happened today.
The day itself along with every other individual day of the year is gone now forever.
And it took all this time to get that far.
I suppose that's what an optimist or a reborn Christian is,
someone who can appreciate every day as the only one of its kind and every person is something unrepeatable.
But I feel this renewed vision could only last so long before slowly decomposing
whilst laying in...
Wow.
Whilst laying in bitter wait for a replacement philosophy.
I am an agnostic and I realize that philosophy is, in the truest sense, food for thought.
Hanging onto one bit for too long is silly.
It rots on the shelf.
It begins to stink.
No one gets to enjoy it.
You must consume philosophy perhaps after brief appreciation.
And how do you consume it?
By bringing out its opposite and exposing it as just more sand.
It's a theme that's coming.
It'll be slowly revealed to you.
Okay.
It's sad in a way, I guess, but the alternatives are unhealthy.
I guess after averaging out all recollection, I'd have to give this day a solid five.
I admit it.
Wait, wait, wait.
I'll give each day a number.
Can I stop right there?
Sure.
But we'll never get anywhere.
Whatever you think, whatever you want to say.
Fifteen.
Pretty good.
Maybe that's what I wanted you to think.
Well, so far, I'm on your side.
Sure.
That's probably what I thought the first entry of a journal should accomplish.
And yet, I don't think, I don't know if I think anyone's ever going to read this.
But I know that I'm trying to impress myself or some unseen reader.
Blogging hasn't been invented yet.
So I'm like doing like a MySpace blog.
So this is me signing off, and this is very typical.
I won't read all the ones that are kind of typical like this.
This is one of my sign-offs.
Well, deep...
I'm sorry.
I have to do the voice.
Well, deep...
Deep night...
Is it night or night?
No, no.
Well, deep night and weirdness.
Whisper warnings of a melancholy marrow.
All right, I take it all back.
You lost me.
I look upon it with the usual neutral dread.
Max, dear sir, be with me from six till six on the special twenty-eighth,
for I predict it will be an ugly irksome four.
Is everyone in my dug Kafka?
You should be asking, who's Max?
Well, I have a lot of questions, but let's start with that one.
Max, I figured out, because I was like, who's Max?
Is he the Sandmaster?
Do you remember what I told you?
Do you remember what I told you that, in a way, yes.
Do you remember what I told you that my Dungeons & Dragons character,
you kind of pressed me to tell you, and I said it was Jim Nightblade.
Thank you for calling out from the audience.
That's partly true.
Jim Nightblade was a character I played in a game called Shadow Run.
Nice.
Never let it be said that I did not find my crowd before I died.
You cannot expect more than one woo for Shadow Run,
but if you get one, you have found your niche, sir.
Was that a deep weariness and a weary Mauro?
Was that a role-playing game?
It was a role-playing game.
It was like setting the future, setting a future in which magic and technology
had both awakened, magic had reawakened,
and so there were ogres and dragons and stuff,
but there were also hackers and cyber things,
and I played Jim Nightblade, a bounty hunter,
who was killing it with the ladies.
My point being that I found a thing where I rattled off all of my...
I was talking about role-playing, and I suddenly realized who Max was.
Max was one of my... was my favorite actual D&D character.
Actually, he was the one I played in a game called Middle Earth Role-Playing,
which was a little cooler than D&D,
sort of the crack to D&D's weed cocaine.
And if you ever wanted musical cue, I don't know what it is,
but Zack has cued up some of his hip-hop,
so if you ever want it, I don't know what it is.
It's sight unseen or ear unheard of.
Well, when your cheeks get to a maximum redness,
feel free to pop the champagne crack with a little brief hip-hop interlude.
December 12th, 1989, 10.40pm.
Tomorrow, if one thing goes right,
I shall have opportunity to partake in a Shadow Run with Neil and Rob.
Ah, Seattle in the year 2050.
Your coffee is so strong.
Such a pleasant place to escape to,
where prepositions can end sentences.
Alright, take it easy, Harmon, don't bully anybody.
Where Jim Nightblade, bounty hunter,
stalks the dark streets without fear,
the cybernetically enhanced anti-hero
for whom nothing goes wrong that can't be fixed by next gaming session.
How I envy thee, James,
and how I long to control you again for an hour or two,
and how I wonder why language hasn't evolved
when technology has these and those.
Oh, I wonder when one writes in a journal,
one must take on an Orson-Willian bravado,
although one is writing about one's acne,
so that for one brief moment I might mistake myself for you
and this world for yours.
Also so that I might add to my treasure chest of fantastic experiences,
which I share with myself alone after the game has been done for days.
You see, reader, there's a reader.
Jim's world has perfect screenplay potential.
I lament earlier that life has no screenplay potential.
Another thing.
This is one day earlier.
I don't even know what to write, but I feel a surge of pathetic feelings.
I know that in a matter of hours something will go wrong or right,
and for the rest of my life some things will just keep going wrong or right.
Real life sucks. It has absolutely no screenplay potential.
Life is a monotonous hairball.
Sorry, my cheese got red.
That's alright.
I'm happy, then sad, right, then wrong.
Wait, let's break down monotonous hairball.
Let's break it down into the metaphor mixer.
Was that it?
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm happy, then sad, right, then wrong, early, then late, old, then young.
These drops and peaks are tightly adhered to a steady flat line that is my boring existence.
The problem is, these are normal teenage claims,
but I'm not supposed to be a teenager.
In fact, I'm not. I sense that.
My roots run deeper than any adults.
My branches puncture the farthest layer of sky.
Whoa.
But my roots have yet to drink freely,
and my leaves have yet to even bud.
Do leaves bud? I don't even know.
So anyways, I talk about going to play the role-playing game,
and then at that, but it has perfect screenplay potential.
As does, and this is, I'm gonna rattle off names.
These are all names of characters I played.
I created and played in various role-playing games.
As does Edison Newborn's,
Melkintook's,
Raymond Flinks,
and of course, Maxwell Artfall.
Maxwell Artfall was my big, that was my guy.
Who is he?
He was a bit of a rapscallion, a sloshbuckler,
and something of a ladies' man.
Strangely enough.
I mean, it gets dark.
I become more and more of a dick
as my sexual frustration kind of wheel.
Would you start writing some of the prose again?
I want to cue that music again,
and I think my time out just right.
There's a, so I'll be dipped in dog shit
if I didn't pass my road test on Friday.
I'm a licensed driver!
Now, that's a real journal entry.
That's a job I'm not doing in every other one.
It's like, why don't you stop telling me
about the particulars of the Gestalt,
and tell me, remind me at 40 of like,
what were you doing?
Gee, the more I write, the less I have to say.
I lost the debate meet on Saturday.
That is, Graham and I went two and one,
the other team, one and two.
I just had to throw them into the bus, I guess.
I didn't go to the snowball dance at school.
I didn't go to the company Christmas party at ground round.
I didn't go to comedy sports on Sunday.
Gina moved in with some guy by UWM.
Gina would be some girl I had a crush on,
not somebody that ever touched me.
Actually, she let me kiss her under her mistletoe.
You're still 15, right?
This is December 17th and 89, yeah, I think I'm 15.
My car insurance shall be costing me about $100 a month.
You had car insurance at 15 years old?
Yeah.
What?
Well, yeah, and a job.
15?
Half my pay at any rate.
I was a dishwasher.
God knows what gasoline costs.
I didn't know yet.
Funny thing is, these are my only problems.
There are a few more.
I got a C and a Brit Lit paper,
and I'm eight and a half stories behind in that class.
I have to clean my room.
No Christmas shopping done.
No girl to spend the remaining 40% of my money on.
Oh, ladies, don't week for me.
I spew some misogynist shit.
I guess the bottom line is that I need a little excitement
or a little order to my life.
I wish I had a few friends who didn't laugh at everything I said.
No, no, stop laughing.
He hates that.
Yeah, I come to like it.
But rather had a reply that might silently amuse me.
I wish my zits would vanish,
granting me the confidence I feel I need
to be more successful with the Chickers.
Keep going.
That ain't gonna sound like that.
So then there's a page that says,
December 18th through January 3rd, transitional movement.
Phase two begins.
You ready?
Do you want the music back?
Dance taken off his jacket,
picks up his vodka,
and reads.
Phase two, I say.
Fuck it.
In reference to the dealings of my phase one self.
Fuck, fuck, fuck it.
In fact, I'm afraid the new policy is this.
One, no more involvement in the affairs of others.
No extracurricular attempts at hobnobbing.
Speak when spoken to and when wit is unavoidable.
You know, sometimes you don't know your own strength.
Number two, think before speaking.
No reflexive speech that wears a groove in your brain.
Like, uh, uh, uh, uh, which I grew into the master of.
Should have listened to some shit.
Number three, no more somber thoughts of existentialism
that aren't properly coated with wit and or humor.
This guy's laying it on the line.
Number four, no unsolicited criticism outside the presence of the subject.
What?
You know, like, don't talk shit about people.
Behind their backs, tired to say into their face.
Number five, constant quest for adventure.
Period, period, period.
When offered two choices, take the less routine.
Number six, an 80% reduction of all negative humor,
which is easier to execute than the more enjoyable refreshing positive humor
that will replace it hence.
Well, anyways, suffice to say that the policy in general dictates
a more light carefree image, including in my writing starting now.
Ah, that feels better.
Well, tomorrow I begin another mat dash to finish homework in class,
so I'll better get some ugly sleep.
Instead of beauty sleep.
Oh, I get it. I get it. I get it.
All right.
Cool music.
This is the point where I started to go,
this is fucked up.
Like, this is really fucked up.
And I don't know what to say to mitigate that before reading this.
I don't know what to do to protect myself from your judgment reading this
because as I was explaining to Aaron,
I don't know enough differences between me and this person
except that this person bothered to write this down.
And like, I mean, I know that this person is lying to himself,
but I don't, me saying that is not enough.
This is a...
Tuesday, January 23rd, 1990, 11.14 p.m.
I will probably never forget tonight for two reasons,
one big, one small.
The small reason is that I lost my virginity
in the back of my mother's 83 firebird.
The big reason is that I realized what a complete scumbag I am.
I am the worst shade of evil you can get.
Tonight, I played the role of the heroic super stud to the last line.
And boy, did I do good.
I said, get your hands off of her.
What a macho one I was.
I'm referring to this story that I've told
at least in another podcast, if not this one,
where the girl I lost my virginity to,
I met her online and I went to her place
and for a couple dates, I went to her place and we made out.
Then her crazy mom came home, started yelling at her
about a new kids on the block fan club check
that she had taped together after being disposed of
as punishment for not doing her chores.
She was 21 and had a kid.
It was really the new kids on the block.
Her mom pulled a steak knife out of a drawer
and started yelling, drunk,
and I stepped in between this girl's mom and her
with my acrylic sweater and my little rat tail and my zits
and said, leave her alone.
And so afterward, we went under the home bridge
in Milwaukee and we had sex in the back of my mom's car.
So I'm coming home from that, I think,
and really feeling my oats.
Feeling your oats?
Does that know what you do?
You sell them?
Before you sell them, you kind of run over
and you threw your fingers a little bit.
If you love oats, I love mine at 16.
What a macho one I was.
And it all worked.
I was partly responsible for patching up a family tonight.
People were happy and safe because of Dan Harmon.
And hey, I even got the ultimate prize.
I fucked her in the freezing cold weather in a cramped car.
She came twice.
Here's the punchline.
I don't give a shit about any of them.
I'm not even going to write her name on papers.
So if my parents read this,
I can pretend it was someone respectable.
I don't even know what that means.
Am I in a yacht club?
Why am I talking like Andrew McCarthy
and why I was lower middle class?
She lived on the yacht.
Her name was Tammy.
She existed.
That sounds a lot like she didn't exist,
but I have no reason to perpetuate that.
She existed.
She might still exist.
Everything I did tonight
that made it look like I cared for her
was some realistic charade
from my mother's soap operas.
Some half-assed reflex,
something in me that needed to play life just like on TV.
Oh, did I say half-assed?
No way.
It was perfect.
All the while, in my mind,
I was up at comedy sports again,
strutting my stuff on the astroturf stage.
To the delight of the rabid audience
that demanded to see the new game called Romance.
Strutting your stuff on the astroturf.
God knows I don't give a shit about anyone but me.
And then I drew a stick figure
that is, I know, is Maxwell Artfall
because he has a bandana around his head.
There are three stick figure women
flocking towards him.
He's brandishing a little stick figure sword
and I labeled it sword of charm.
And he's holding a rope
about to swing away like Errol Flynn
and it says a rope of apathy.
Some 16-year-olds don't know how to take
I'll let you fuck me for the compliment it is.
Tuesday, February 13th,
this is a little less than a month later.
All's well that never ends.
Oh, he's good.
Tammy was taken away to a mental hospital.
Real good.
He fucked the brains out of her.
Tammy was taken away to a mental home.
Attempted suicide is illegal, you see.
Quite the opposite, Jeff.
After I went to the pits of despair.
I wish I had another song queued up for that one.
I guess I didn't have to deal with her after all.
My hero.
After I got off the phone with her
when I realized she was a manic depressive schizophrenic
who thought she was a Satanist.
She did think she was a Satanist, that's the true story.
I felt bad about not giving a shit about her.
So I wrote this eulogy
and it says Tammy by Dan Harmon, filled in later.
And it's blank.
Show me?
Man.
Like I'll do it later.
Why don't you do it now?
Why don't you eulogize her now?
Roses are red, violets are blue.
Tammy, I'm so sorry I put my wiener anywhere near you.
Try to buck up wherever you are and I also apologize
for the size of my mom's car.
And just as the poem suggests, she's dead to me now.
Blah, blah, blah.
I mean, you know what I'm doing.
I'm like a 60-year-old nerd who actually got laid
and I can't deal with the idea.
Like the only person that would let me do it
was this person I met online
and she was kind of, you know, she was mentally unstable
and she did...
I don't even know exactly what I'm doing.
I just know I'm coping with something,
some energy larger than myself,
by being a woman-hating, like, pompous asshole,
like an acting like, well, whatever.
And I just really...
The uncomfortable thing is I just really...
This is me.
It's not like Aaron said, so what?
You haven't atoned enough with the fact
that this is your 16-year-old self, that you're not...
Like, why is it embarrassing if it's not you anymore?
And I'm like, it's not that it's me.
I mean, it's been a million years,
but it's just too uncomfortable seeing
the kind of core of your personality
laid out by someone who doesn't know
how to dress it up right yet.
He knows how to dress it up,
but his dress is a special dress
that belies the really gross shit underneath.
I'm sure he could come up with a much better metaphor
for what I'm trying to say.
I'm not just getting the same things out of life
as everyone else.
It's another entry later.
I'm only talking to myself on this paper,
so I'll just be honest.
Look at everybody else.
They are so weird.
The way they talk, the way they write,
the way they think, they're not like me at all.
The only similarities I have with these people
are the things I've picked up,
acquired as habit like a foreigner in America.
I need a CAT scan.
Maybe I have a tumor.
What the fuck happened to me?
You notice I'm not talking like Frasier anymore.
It was like I needed that first orgasm
to get out the Shakespeare thing.
I am like the perfect person.
Everything goes swell for me.
I have so much to be thankful for.
Maybe the problem is I don't know who to thank.
I remember I had a saying when I was around 12 or 13
that used to amuse people.
I'd say, thanks something.
One would think it was a malicious taunt,
a way of flaunting my then-fledgling agnosticism toward God.
But it wasn't.
It was a genuine plea, an honest praise,
a desperate attempt by me to show my appreciation
to whoever was in charge
without offending anyone by using the wrong name.
And I don't mean anyone down here.
Nothing has changed.
I'm so confused.
There is nothing to latch onto.
It's like an equation in algebra with no numbers,
just variables.
You'll never solve it.
Never!
And don't think that admitting my confusion is therapeutic
because it doesn't do a thing for me.
Should I be depressed, happy, introverted,
violent, observant, ambidextrous, funny,
young, prepared, afraid, apathetic?
There's no one to ask.
There never was.
Never will be anyone like me on this planet.
And who cares if there was?
The blind leading the blind.
No one knows, no one understands
the simultaneous pain and pleasure I live with.
Constantly on the brink of the insanity
I swam in when I was younger,
somewhere between seventh and eighth grade.
Were you a cutter?
No, I was a visser.
Who needs to cut themselves
when they can do this kind of damage on paper?
Always finding a new excuse to postpone thought
lest I go bonkers.
Is that nuts?
I'm allergic to my own mind.
I am so confused.
What will become of me?
Everyone else has this determined look on their face.
This purpose in life.
What do I have?
What will I ever get?
Where the fuck am I?
Who am I?
And how did I end up in the body of a 17-year-old?
Help.
June 20th, 1990.
Haven't written in a while.
I think I'm going to write a short story
loosely based on my recent experiences
in life and love.
I'll call it...
Twinkies of Inferno.
That's been our show.
Thank you for coming to Harmontown, everybody.
That's not the whole title.
There's a colon and then there's more.
Twinkies of Inferno, The Adventures of Dapper Dan.
Speaking of love, I think I am in love,
but she hardly knows me.
Surprise.
And she's going to college in September.
She is beautiful, intelligent, witty.
Here's the best part.
She only laughs at my really good jokes.
And when she does, she lights up the whole room.
I'd better put her name down for future reference.
And I do.
She put her full name and then I put her address
and her phone number.
So future historians can track her down.
I go, what was it like to be loved by Maxwell Artfall?
I'll never forgive myself when she's gone.
Never.
Time for a poetry break, I say.
And then I write a poem.
I don't think that song will work
with the meter of this poem.
What do you want?
What are you feeling?
I don't know.
It's kind of staccato.
We'll do it a cappella.
Yeah.
There's not a place that you can go.
There's no one here you need to know.
There's not a thing.
Do you have anything by Dr. Seuss?
It occurs to me.
Someone had some inspiration here.
I will not fuck you in a car.
Upbeat, downbeat, what are you like?
No, no, no, really.
I'm trying to make it work with whatever you pick.
It'll be more of a, it'll be, this is a barrel through it
like a Dr. Seuss poem.
There's not a place that you can go.
There's no one here you need to know.
There's not a thing that you can be.
There's no such thing as symmetry.
There is no balance right or wrong.
There are no words.
There is no song.
There is no pleasure without pain.
There is no sunshine while it rains.
There's not a deed that you can do.
There's no one else.
There's only you.
You're on your own.
Do what you will.
You'll die when you have had your fill.
You'll die.
And then you'll see.
We'll share the answers.
You and me.
When you were not, I split you up.
And now you seek to interrupt.
Go back.
Go back and tend your own.
You'll die.
You're not alone.
I think that's God writing that to people.
There's two final entries.
I might as well complete the story.
And then we'll bring up Spencer.
I mean, this has been a full thing.
You've watched this.
You don't have to sarcastically.
I hope that was applause for Spencer and not sarcastic applause for the ending of me reading
my pretentious journal.
They're one of the same.
But you know what?
This guy wouldn't care what you think.
Obviously.
Are you strangling this audience with a rope of apathy right now?
I use the rope to get away from the women who are drawn in by my sort of charm job.
What?
Second to last entry.
August 1st, 1990, 1251 AM.
I think that indicates that I've started drinking.
I think I'm coming home later.
I ran into some old friends tonight.
I was at a stoplight in my 83 Firebird when a car pulled up next to me.
I noticed it contained,
Shanard Dern, Dave Harrison, Mike Musgrove.
I rolled down my car window and said hello.
Strangely enough, the first words out of Mike's mouth were smooth grip lube tube.
What?
I then remembered that two years ago I had used that term in a speech on birth control
to our oral communications class.
Mike and Dave were in that class.
They were seniors and I was a sophomore.
Now I was a senior sitting next to them once again at a red light.
They were drunk.
The conversation was slacking, so I mentioned the fact that Andy Luciano,
the sports guy on TV6 News, was at White Hen Pantry.
I said he looked like Don Ho.
I added that his wife was a Don Ho herself.
A gosh Don Ho.
Andy doesn't really look like Don Ho.
Andy looks Hawaiian and the only Hawaiian I know is Ho.
Obviously a little tipsy going into the journal that night, I think, feeling a little...
All right, final entry.
Sunday, September 30th, 1990, 11.04.04 p.m.
A lot has happened as of late.
I will not bother to dwell.
As of late.
I have become senior class vice president.
The class of 91 has failed in their last chance to win homecoming week.
We are truly the victims of an administrative conspiracy.
My experiences continue to push me up the ladder towards self-actualization,
spiritual unity with thought and body and deed.
As I progress, I begin to realize that the top rung is connected to the goddamn bottom rung.
So it's not so much climbing to the top as it is learning to deal with this round ladder.
Story circle.
The birth of a model.
This journal seems so incomplete with all its gaps and ambiguities.
Oh, there's enough, buddy.
But I sense that this is it for this journal.
I just had a funny feeling that maybe I'm speaking over a decade or more to my future self.
And my wife and kids.
Oops.
Dan, old Dan.
Take a walk once in a while.
I may be young, but I do not lack in wisdom.
If I don't say so myself.
I don't know when to tell you this, but at this point I was reading this in the green room and I started crying.
Erin was watching me read and she's like, what is happening? What's going on?
Because she saw how upset I was with the previous entries and I'm like reading this and crying and kind of smiling a little.
And she's like, what is it? What is it?
And I'm like, I finished reading it and then I started crying.
I'm not crying because it's good.
I'm just crying because my 17-year-old self landed the perfect closer to a segment.
I can't believe this kid did something right.
Perhaps you have turned to this book in a moment of need.
It's true, I had no bits.
So try to remember the spark that we share and listen to me when I say that you should hang on.
I wonder who the chick in your life is.
Is she pretty?
I know you don't care, but I'm 17.
I know you've loosened your stance.
You must love her. It must be awesome.
You two probably fight a little, but I'll bet she's the type that knows how to handle your little mind tricks.
You know what I hope?
I hope some rainy night you two have a fight and she kicks you out of the house or you storm out,
take a walk or a ride in your Corvette.
Now I'm crying.
And she finds this notebook on the coffee table, open to this page,
and she reads it and realizes that you really are capable of love.
You don't show it sometimes.
And I hope you really did name your child Max.
Because you're both Woody Allen fans.
And I hope that he or she is what you always dreamed of.
And I hope someday here she achieves what it seems you were not born to do.
Whatever and wherever they are, give my love to your loved ones.
And try to realize that your parents, if alive, feel the same way
and would love a call from you on the visa phone.
Which now exists.
With that I leave this, the last entry in the first volume of my journals.
It would have been nice if it would have been a whole year long,
but only the calendar runs on 12 month cycles.
People do not.
The sun sets once again on this crazy beach.
Jesus Christ.
The people continue to construct their strange shapes in the sand.
While the tide rolls in and out.
Spencer, come up.
If you will.
Spencer Crittenden, our DM.
The positive word for it is catharsis, the bad word would be absolute draining,
like just crippling sadness.
From 15 to 17, I think we would all be embarrassed by anything we did.
It's pretty embarrassing because you really stuck the landing on it.
You really did it with a big flourish at the end.
You John Hancocked it.
And also you asked your older self to enjoy it.
And also to appreciate your youthful wisdom.
That's narcissistic.
I may be young, but I still have some wisdom to offer.
I'm a Spartan, you old man.
It's like Looper.
I hope he kills himself as he keeps fake threatening too in all his dramatic journal entries.
There's that sweatiness of adolescence that kind of stinks up the joint.
But still, you're still a pretty good writer back then.
It's a little frasiery at points.
There's a lot of like, you could lose the wildest things like that.
You notice the wildest went away kind of as the sexuality emerged.
There was still some left over, but there was a lot of like, it's like sort of a stereotype.
There was a lot of like, I was like Shakespeare, but bad, until like a girl let me touch her boobies.
Yeah, and then you were a carawak baby.
Yeah, yeah, then I turned into a bad carawak.
There's a threshold, I don't know if anyone's ever read it, Ask the Dust.
You become John Fonte in there for a moment,
and then that's the threshold into becoming an actualized writer.
Yeah.
Sorry, John Fonte, I love you.
Anyways, so let's see, should we plunge right into T&D?
Probably, right? Yeah, it's already nine o'clock, so.
Should we grab our character sheets?
Yeah, do you want me to give them?
This is the character sheet distribution music.
The character sheets, fluttering across the stage like so many pieces of densely written upon paper.
Spencer, if you will, Dungeon Master to the Stars, bring us up to date if you would.
In the last adventure, our heroes, guided by the barbarian, Karen Broadleath, finally arrived at Yellowwood.
The first of three Buttsalot encampments. Noticing something amiss,
the gang came to discover that the Buttsalot tribe had formed an uneasy alliance with Ashtale
and his Blackpaw Knowles in a bid to gain control of the entire Butz Peninsula.
Sharpie single-handedly sought out his father, only to find that he was in Blue Camp,
gathering with advisors to discuss the door's possible surrender.
But when the gang got to Blue Camp, they were told barbarian lord left for Red Camp,
the gathering place of warriors.
Eventually, Sharpie met with an old rival, Dead Eye Duncan, who revealed that the lord snuck away from Red Camp last night
with a retinue of elite warriors from the tribe. But where were they headed?
I was pretty in the bag by then, I think. I think that might have been during a blackout.
Dead Eye Duncan?
Yeah. Dead Eye Duncan.
An old rival.
Oh, I think I know, I remember.
You met him?
So he said that my dad left with a retinue of Knowles or barbarians?
Of elite barbarian warriors.
And they headed where?
Who knows? It was presumably a secret mission of sorts.
You're standing in the middle of Red Camp, a few barbarians stand staring and muttering to one another.
You're saying he told no one where he went?
Yeah.
And he left in the dead of night, the most mysterious part of night.
You know, Quark?
Yeah.
I'm no wizard at this.
But I am a wizard.
And I think we need a tracker, an experienced ranger of sorts.
Yeah?
What about that weird homophobic chick that you didn't like?
Oh my God, I thought you'd never ask.
Do we have a 20 on Mulraine Sedona?
Do you have a 20, like a location?
Yeah.
What's your 20?
A little buddy.
You look around and standing, leaning against a post in a very cool manner.
Stands Mulraine Sedona.
You mean she was following us the whole time?
Yeah.
She's a tracker.
That's why we need her right now.
I saunter over to her.
Sauntering Cooley, you approach the half-elf, half-human.
Role-player Erin McGathy.
Reprising her role is Mulraine Sedona.
And in soap operas, when I was a kid, my mom used to watch Guiding Light.
And in soap operas, I don't know if they still do this,
but because they shoot one every day, and so you can't avoid,
like sometimes a main character gets really sick.
Yeah.
And they have no choice.
So they very often, like a guy will go,
like, well, where's Clifford? And then, like, this guy that you've been watching for 25 years
as Clifford comes in, but it's a totally different guy wearing the same sweater.
And then this voiceover would just come in and go,
the part of Clifford Johnson will be played by Daniel Piloff.
And they would just move right along.
It was the coolest thing in the world.
Daniel Piloff was a goodie, though.
Hello.
Mulraine.
Sorry.
I forgot that you were with us,
or that you disappeared the last chapter of our campaign.
We were good.
We had a good time.
It's quite all right. I was on a different adventure.
Really? You have different ones?
Tell us about it. What happened?
Well, I joined a different campaign.
Yeah.
What were their names?
Their names were Surrey Cruz,
and Jemima Syrupsalot.
And there were legs covered in eyes.
There, too.
And there's a lake of fire.
Are you lying to us right now?
Yes.
Making up names.
You just followed us and fell on.
You just been tagging along like a stray dog.
I've been in the branches.
Adventure.
Well, look, as fate would have it, we have a use for you.
Chris, you fate.
My dad's missing.
He didn't tell anybody where he went.
He left in the worst part of the night.
The dead of night.
I don't know how tracking works.
I don't know if you need to find a broken branch.
I bet Mulray and Sedona knows exactly how tracking works.
I do.
I use these skills.
Describe them briefly.
I regard the forest for signs of Buttsalot's father.
But you were in an encampment in the plains and rolling hills.
I was.
I'm such a liar.
I use my sense of smell.
But now I'm present, right?
You are present.
That's true.
She's good.
You attract your own presence.
I look to the ground.
Using your keen sense of smell, you detect the distinct aroma of Buttsalot warriors.
There are butts this way.
All right, well, lead the way.
I lead the way.
They lead out the door.
The smells do.
Let's follow these smells.
I open the door.
Because I'm a gentleman.
Thank you.
Your token is accepted gratefully.
Well, you wouldn't notice that.
I did.
You did, but these guys are pretty quiet about it.
My journal has turned everyone into a petty 15-year-old.
A sad, existential, self-involved mutterer.
Hey, why are you talking? Was wit necessary or unavoidable?
Unavoidable.
Oh, sorry.
I didn't detect unavoidable wit.
Oh, yeah.
Hoisted by your own petard, Sharpie.
Yeah.
We're going to take a quick break from the D&D game.
Because I cast a pallor over the evening with my journals.
Raise your hand if you were my biggest fan in the world.
Second to Adam, who thinks maybe, really, you have a super claim.
You really, really adored me.
You felt like I was really a magnificent human being.
And now they don't?
I wanted to ask him if it changed because of the journals.
It was great.
Thanks, girlfriend.
I like you more after your journal.
Okay.
All right.
Hey, Seuss, right?
Yeah.
All right.
Hey, Seuss says you like me more.
Sorry, I had to know.
I'll edit it out.
Just concerned.
I liked you more.
Okay.
Now everyone likes me less because I care.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I told you I'm the same guy.
I care what people think.
That's the thing.
You really are the same guy.
We don't change, as Tolstoy said.
Identity doesn't only change that much.
I still think women that have sex with me are bad people.
And they all go insane afterwards.
My goodness, we don't have sex.
I'm too busy journaling.
Hey, guys, we're having sex right now.
All right.
For what?
No, I'm kidding.
I'm totally kidding.
You're doing it wrong.
Pressing play on this Spencer DVR.
You step out of red camp.
You are an outside of red camp.
Now.
It is evening.
You can't see far in the rolling hills.
Still got a track on those smells.
You lose track of the smells.
Oh, shit.
That track, all it did was get us out.
I examine the ground.
You examine the ground and see several pairs of tracks.
It looks like they've been attempted to be covered up.
But your keen eyes see through the illusion.
I suggest that we follow the tracks that are most Buttsalot-like..
You suggest successfully.
Let's follow these.
All right.
We have torches.
Yeah.
We better light them up, gentlemen.
Lighting your torches.
You shed light on the path.
It's just to keep, you know, like...
The Spencer suddenly hate this?
I'm so awkward, you guys.
Not true.
Let's follow the footprints.
I created a vortex of raw emotion.
Spencer's not immune.
We're all feeling very adolescent.
I just come here to hate myself every week.
Like a sand dune shaped by the malevolent monotony.
As many shapes as I intend to create on this sand.
I know the tide will nexerably come.
Oh, my God.
I was 15 too, you guys.
I wish I could have found you and had you do punch-up on my journal.
What was the character?
The guy with the bandana was Maxwell Artfall.
We got to meet that guy along his campaign at some point.
Spencer, can we draw that character up at some point?
You know, he might have met us tragically.
I believe I heard he drowned in pussy.
It was, you know, it was terrible.
His rope of apathy could not get him.
It's only so long.
His sort of charm couldn't strike enough pussy off.
I heard he drove away in a corvette.
The new 2050 Corvette with Bizaphone.
I examine our surroundings about it, Spencer.
You fail to see the footprints that Mulraine Sedona has noticed with your key.
Are we following the footprints?
Let's follow those crudely covered up footprints.
Throwing caution to the winds.
You follow the footprints.
They head south.
East, west.
There we go. South, west.
What's happening tonight, Spencer?
I'm just sick.
I'm going to say that every day will be awesome.
You were sick last week, you said.
I know. That's my thing now.
Are you in love?
Did you eat some bad dice?
Have you been licking your dice again?
Did you roll a number two earlier?
I did roll a number two.
It's a nice joke.
And a poop joke.
Sorry, Spencer.
We are concerned about your health.
Spencer, is it an actual ailment?
I think I just have terrible anxiety crossed with steadily poisoning my body with processed and fast foods.
It just combines to make me feel terrible all the time.
I know. I'm really good at faking.
You're like a plus 15 at faking, aren't you?
Yeah.
Sorry, Spencer.
I'm looking at my character sheet.
I noticed that you said that I'm 111 pounds and I've never been happier.
I said I'm 111 pounds.
Yeah, but you're a dude.
Yeah, I think six pounds of that is penis.
Yeah, even lighter.
Anyway, we follow the tracks.
Following the tracks to the southeast, you make very little progress.
You track about a mile and a half before losing the trail.
It seems like it either veers to the southeast or the southwest, but you're not sure which.
The southeast, you can see mountains in the distance.
The southwest, you can't make much out.
Shit.
Let's go towards the mountains, you guys.
Right?
Of course.
Come on.
Well, he's going to meet with dwarves, right?
Yes.
And dwarves like being taller.
They'll do anything to...
They're going to be in the mountains.
Acting all tall.
I was going to say, I think they live in mountains.
Did they?
Well, probably.
I mean, Lord of the Rings much.
Anachronism as much?
Well, I mean, I'm speaking as...
Okay.
Let's go to the mountains.
Let's head towards the mountains.
The mountains.
You hike for what seems like hours.
Hey, Sharpie, you know, we've got a lot of downtime on this hike toward the mountains.
Let's do a walk and talk.
Do you want to make a journal entry while we're on the way?
Curse of the Earth.
It mocks my footsteps.
I'm so perfect.
I wish I could find a woman who only laughs when I'm really funny.
Then I would give her my penis.
She would love it, for I am seventeen.
Nice.
Weird.
But nice.
Be comforted.
Sorry.
Take it back.
How long until we need to camp?
It's nighttime.
You've been walking for a good five or six hours in the evening.
I mean, you could make camp or you could press on.
You don't know where these tracks lead, so there's not really a good timing to it.
I think let's take a little break and let's play a game.
Like a board game or a word game or something like that.
Sure, that's a great idea.
Yeah?
I mean, does anybody know any games we could play?
Well, what about like a role-playing game?
Role-playing?
All right.
What's that one where technology meets magic?
Shadow Run.
Can I be Jim Nightblade?
I don't see how this is constructed.
A little too close to home there, Sharpie.
It's very clever and very expressive, but ultimately I think it's going to get like a 1.7 and a Thursday at best.
I fear for its future.
I think it should just...
What's the worst thing that would happen?
I'm going to fire you off the show?
Not this one.
This is Harmontown.
I created this.
You created Sarah Silverman and Community too.
Yeah, but this time I put Harmon right in the title.
Like there's no way.
What if we pretended we were a family?
I know I'm a man, but what if I was the mommy?
But what if you were the daddy?
What if you were the uncle?
I probably would go into a berserk rage.
It might actually help me to get through some of these issues.
I'm feeling really like ineffective right now.
I'm trying to track my dad.
I left him in the first place because I didn't feel like I was enough of a man.
Now I can't even find the guy.
Do you have any stories about your dad?
You can tell us where we're camped at.
Hey, he hit me with a magic belt.
What sort of magic was it?
It was a plus three against asses.
Oh, sweetheart.
Thanks, Mulraine.
But it's not sensitivity that I need.
It's to give my shit together.
Shit, shit, shit.
I'm such a fuck up.
No, too hard on yourself.
There's got to be a better way to track them than just conventional means.
Wandering in random directions, looking for smells.
This is my dad.
I use...
If you've tried enough, you've helped enough.
But I must have something better than this.
The father-son bond is what will lead me to him.
I take my mage dagger and I make a tiny, painless cut on my hand.
I haven't had a dream in a long time.
I hold my fist out by the torchlight and I squeeze a little drop of blood onto the dirt of my feet.
And I say...
Ayaaaahhhhhh...
Well, divination isn't your strong suit, but you do get the sense that he's to the southeast.
I said that.
He's by the mountains, you guys, to the southwest.
What?
The mountains are to the southwest.
So I avoided getting lost with my hand cutting and fake Arabic Jewish stuff.
Assuming you were right.
What time of day is it Spencer?
It is evening.
It's like early, like 2, 4 a.m.
We use our torches and we go to the southeast.
I say extinguish the torches and travel out of the cover of night, safer to travel without
lights at night, right?
Look, I'm a barbarian gnome.
You are incredibly convincing in your arguments.
The others are one over to your side immediately.
Alright.
We extinguish our torches.
Extinguishing your torches.
You stumble around in the dark, slowly but surely you head to the southeast before the
break of dawn.
I examine our surroundings now.
You see off in the distance smoke rising as if from some sort of encampment or small
village.
Sharpie?
I say we hide.
I'm kidding.
Let's head towards the encampment.
Look man, I was going through your journal last night while you were sleeping.
Don't read it.
You left them out, man.
You're going to find out how smart I am.
You talk a lot of trash when you're a 16-year-old, man.
Well, I went through some shit.
No one ever understood me.
My roots punctured the earth but never drank freely.
I know, Sharpie.
There was a passage that really moved me when you talked to your current self and you got
to date exactly right and you wished that you would start acting like an adult.
You assumed that you already would be and here you are just hiding in a bush for the
rest of your life.
The 15-year-old hid in that journal and got hit by a magic bell.
He got hit by a magic bell.
Let's let that spell loose.
All right, you're right.
You could cut the tension with a knife or a stick or anything with a finger.
You know what?
All that having been said, I think we head toward the encampment.
Triumphantly, you raise yourself from the bushes.
They enjoy progress.
I feel like hitting play more than pause.
I just meant we're left-wingers.
We run to be encampment.
Running to the encampment, you detect the unmistakable aroma of noll hide.
We smell it.
You smell it.
I smell it.
I love it.
Nulls are bad.
I don't know.
I just love smelling things.
All right, I think this session of D&D has been bringing Adam Goldberg up on stage of
D&D sessions.
I think we had a no-window.
You mean exciting and illuminating?
Which you probably set up camp and pause it and not do anything.
You don't have to camp before you pause.
You could pause before action.
It's like a cliffhanger.
I start to jump up into the air, freeze frame, a Toyota commercial frame.
Is it like a drop bridge?
I can start charging across.
Did I do it bad?
It's not you, narcissist.
It's me.
It's not you.
No, it's not you.
It's not me.
Not everything's you.
The only person who's not blaming himself is Jeff.
Really, I think it's him.
I don't know what he did wrong, but maybe he wasn't supportive enough of my journal.
I love your journal.
I've been very supportive of you.
I think it's these guys with the matching jackets on the front.
Don't throw the audience at them.
They're not matching.
They're just brown.
One's leather.
One's like a kind of a Nailani kind of canvas business.
They look great.
Yeah, I see a CPS jacket and the other guy's got like a Nagahide thing going on.
I was just kidding.
I made fun of it because I love it.
But what happened is, I said last week in a drunken D&D playing Stupor, I was like,
oh, we should not play anymore because I wanted you to get your friend or your famous friend
to come and play with us.
And then we couldn't bag him as a guest.
So then Spencer was like, is he coming?
No, sorry.
So now we're walking on a path for a whole week.
It's my fault.
The whole thing is my fault.
I may have been an asshole when I was 16, but I have become a person who knows how to
over-apologize.
That is a coping mechanism that I have spent 30 years developing in place of math.
It was fine.
Good job, everybody.
Well, thank you, Spencer.
Let's thank Erin McGathy, Aaron.
Thank you very much, Aaron.
Spencer, stay put because I personally am concerned about this growing anxiety of yours.
Yeah, let's just talk to Spencer like a human being for a change.
Spencer, let's learn more about him.
Will your anxiety permit you to come up on stage and sit in this chair and grab the
mic so the audience can see?
Oh, yeah.
I'll do that.
All right.
Spencer, everyone.
Do you need a drink?
Do you want a drink?
No, no.
Okay.
Spencer, what's going on, man?
I'm worried about you.
Last week, you said you weren't feeling well, but then you said it was anxiety.
Are you agoraphobic?
No, I'm just weird.
But you've been so like, everyone that I know that's heard the podcasts or people that come
to the show, it's pretty unanimous that people really enjoy you in the show and they love
what you do.
Do you not feel welcome here?
Oh, I love it.
That's why I come here.
But it's like, I'm just anxious.
It doesn't make sense.
It's not like there's things that are happening that are like making me anxious.
It's like I'm anxious and that's making me feel weird about things that are happening.
I've had that.
Because of this or because of other things?
Because of Harmontown?
Probably.
I mean, I don't know.
This is new.
It's not regular.
It's a cause of stress, both good and bad.
I mean, it just does that.
Anxiety is a thing that happens.
I got respiratory alkalosis.
All of a sudden, my body was breathing wrong.
I didn't even know it.
I was getting lightheaded and it was because I enjoyed the San Diego Zoo or something.
I don't know.
Yeah, it doesn't matter.
It's just your brain will turn anything around you into the anxious stuff.
Are you feeling anxious right now?
Kind of, like now that you just brought it up.
What if I really focus hard on it right now?
What if I really call it the high relief?
Just my anxiety?
Yeah.
Well, I think I'm defiantly pressing it down now.
I don't know.
Well, I hope you feel safer because I feel safer having you up here on stage.
I think you create a very calming blanket in Harmontown.
You're very good at what you do.
Well, I'm glad if that changes, let me know.
I'll gracefully take my exit.
If that happens, if I'm good, it's fine, you guys.
I think you're better at what you do than Dan or I are at whatever it is we do.
I think you get up here and actually get up and do a specific job quite well.
Luckily, you've defined it for me, so.
Yeah, so our jobs are undefined.
We have plenty of right to be anxious.
Do you like Dream Pop, Spencer?
Yeah, yeah, no.
I saw that Dino tweet.
I do.
I enjoy Dream Pop.
I found out what kind of music I like.
It's called Dream Pop.
What is that?
It's kind of a synth-y aesthetic, typically melancholy emotionally,
but kind of has more tone than melody sometimes.
I would say Mazzy Star would be like a Dream Pop playlist item.
Enos.
M83, particularly fond of.
I'd have to Wikipedia to find out the rest.
Does anybody have any on their phone or iPod or something we can play?
I don't think it would be.
I'm just curious.
I think the mood is already a two-dream poppy right now.
We would need something more bluegrass-y to bring the show to the station.
Is there anybody here tonight that feels like they're going through a particularly troubling period in their life?
Somebody that has a terrible problem?
Hey, Seuss' hand is already going up.
Sorry.
It's alright.
Hey, Seuss.
Can you come up here and talk about it a little bit?
Spencer will take his judging master seat.
Hey, Seuss will come up.
Hey, Seuss, I remember it was in the front row, I think, or second row.
The night we interviewed everyone of all races, and he was one of the Latino people.
No, I know you didn't come up.
I wasn't here.
What?
That was the one week I missed.
Pretty racist.
Wow.
Different Latino.
It's okay.
Different Hey, Seuss.
I swear to God there was a Hey, Seuss here.
We all look the same.
Jose, Hey, Seuss, Pedro.
I mean, it's recorded, I remember his name was Hey, Seuss, and I remember your name was
Hey, Seuss, so I made that connection.
That's called racism.
Or Alzheimer's.
As an ambassador of Mexican people, I forgive you.
Thank you.
So, Nate, what's your name?
Julieta came up.
You weren't here?
No, I was here.
That's what I'm talking about.
Julieta, never mind, don't.
Oh, Julieta came up a different night when we interviewed.
Yeah.
It was a different night.
I'm off the hook.
I'm not racist.
I'm just, yeah, I just have Alzheimer's.
See, you experience it, but I like catalog it sort of in my mind.
Oh, that's episode four.
That's episode 14.
Yeah.
All right, so what's the problem?
It's one of those things I feel are kind of like things I'm not allowed to complain about.
I have a great job.
I get paid.
Brown people problems.
Yeah, exactly.
I feel like most people that are like 40-year-olds, Mexicans that are like outside Home Depot
waiting for a job, hopefully they'll like work 12 hours and then maybe get like 30 bucks.
But I have a steady job.
I get paid $10 an hour.
I mean, it's a lot of work.
It's a lot of time.
I hate it, even though it's meaningful.
You know, I told you about it, SpaceX, the drilling holes in the spaceship parts.
Bullshit.
Yeah, yeah.
You work at a spaceship?
Yes.
For real.
It's no joke.
Tell them about it.
Oh, it's meaningful.
I just, I don't like it.
It's a lot of time.
I spend a lot of the time listening to your show.
While you're working on a spaceship?
Yeah, yeah.
Like welding an X-wing onto an X-wing fighter?
What is the real image of what you do?
Is this the ship that's going to take us to the moon?
Yeah, yeah.
You're building the Harmontownship?
Yeah, I probably will if I continue on to this thing.
But let them know that you're not saying these things because you're schizophrenic.
You actually have a job at where?
SpaceX, you can, I don't know.
It's like a private space company, right?
I don't want to talk up because what you say is way more interesting than what I can say.
Well, I'll edit it out.
You work on a spaceship.
That's way more interesting.
And this is one of the most boring episodes of Harmontown in recorded history.
No, no.
I mean, like the first episode, it was really like, I was immediately hooked because it's like, oh, whatever.
I'm looking at all these podcasts.
There are a lot of good ones.
And then you, the first episode, you're talking about how much it sucked to be fired.
I was like, whoa, like you're a really personal revelatory.
Like this first, the first thing I heard from you and I was impressed.
I started slowly, it became my favorite thing in the whole world.
Well, I'm honored and flattered.
But okay, so let's go.
So you're, you're feeling unsatisfactory, dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction in your job.
Raise your hand if you're like in a creative, productive, media artsy kind of thing.
Like, no?
Yeah, yeah.
And you want that career to progress, right?
And it's just everyone.
Wait, so what did you, so, wait, are you, are you saying you're creative, but you've ended up in a scientific kind of cul-de-sac in your career?
Or are you saying?
Well, just, yeah, I mean, I don't, because I'm complete, I have no reason for myself to doubt.
To be really risky, I just read a Tumblr entry that, that, I guess I'll just say, you, you believe your mom didn't love you.
And, uh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I make that joke for, well, I mean, I think my parents are a little reptilian.
A reptilian?
Like, kind of, like, you know, I don't, I don't, I mean, they say they love me all the time.
I just don't really, I'm not really, I don't really feel that, that's probably my fault.
I'm, maybe I'm the reptile.
I've also diagnosed myself with Aspergers and Bipolarism and anything that comes down the pike.
Because it could be broken inside me.
But anyways, sorry, I didn't mean to.
But, but, you're actually, did you bring that up because you feel like your mom didn't love you?
No, no, no, not at all.
I feel like I have no excuse to have all this self-doubt.
Oh, God, I don't either.
Are you kidding?
No, I grew up in a fucking beautiful little neighborhood in a lower middle class suburb of Milwaukee,
and we played kick the can and, and, and, and, and partook of the nectar of the, of the pear trees.
I don't know much about wildlife.
My point is I took advantage of it.
I took advantage, we threw rocks at cars and ran away.
We caused trouble for the fuck of it because we lived in Eden, you know.
It's like tied ropes across the street to, to try to cause accidents.
And people would get out of their cars and go, what the fuck are you doing?
And we'd go, like, run away.
Because that's what juveniles are doing.
Like they're trying.
There, there, there's two, there's not enough pain in their life.
I was looking at photos today and read it of what's going on in Syria.
It's just blowing my mind.
What it was particularly blowing my mind is that I was looking at pictures of it and it was functioning as entertainment.
I wasn't, you know, we use that word to, to, to usually mean like, haha, this is so fun.
But, but you can also be being entertained by like, holy shit, that's crazy.
Like, which is what I was doing, looking at these pictures of like people's feet giving like, you know, all fucked up.
And like, like, like just, like everyone pointing guns at us, holes in cement walls at each other.
I can't tell who the good guys, the bad guys are, who they think, who, who's fighting who.
It's, it's, those guys are not like, you know, they're, they, they get to complain all they want, but they don't have time.
They're not doing it.
They're like, they're like, where's my gun? Where's my bullets? Where's Fred?
Oh, he's dead.
Okay. Where's Steve then? You know, they move on.
They, they're self-actualized, but we don't want, that's not the solution.
We don't want to live that life.
You know, yeah, the people who get to sit around and whine and have first world problems, like, yeah.
Well, that's most of North America.
Yeah.
It's the whole first world, you might say.
But, but, but we also, you know, I mean, we, we, we, we, there's guilt that comes with that, but the guilt doesn't really get you a lot of places,
except for, I think it's a-
The Harmontown.
To-
It's, it's a hard time.
Anyways, that was all to say, like, whatever, you don't have to, you've done enough,
kind of, what do you call it, disclaiming of whatever your complaints are.
So imagine that everyone forgives you.
Imagine that everyone, that no one's going to be muttering into their coffee cup.
Then that guy got up and he, he should be grateful, but he's not, blah, blah, blah.
Like, what's your pettiest complaint?
I told you, my gardener's doing something wrong.
You know, I, I have, I've chapped lips.
It's ruined my day.
Like, what's your, what's your, what do you wish?
It was true that isn't her.
It's all the time I'm spending drilling holes into stuff that I could be in a room with
funny, awesome people making things, and I wish that was my job.
I wish I could just get drunk and high and make things.
Like, I've never seen an interview when you were talking about this embryo farm of, like,
all these ideas and people would just add to it, and I was so excited and, you know,
I have a Twitter account on every farm, but I don't do anything on it.
I just thought, anyway, the point is, it's that, I want that to be my job really soon.
When you were talking about Channel 101, and I started looking at all the Channel 101 things
and, oh shit, the, you know, it's just the, the jealousy of other people that in high
school, I, I thought that my dream was a little too grandiose, and I was like, no,
I'm not going to be a great actor, blah, blah, but then like a dozen or so of my friends in
the same class focused and struggled, and they succeeded.
They're doing what they love.
They're traveling around the world doing this stuff, and I...
They're creatives?
Yeah, they're creators.
Actors, writers.
They're creatives, actors, writers, blah, blah, blah.
I'm not saying they're there.
And you made a sensible, practical decision to go down like an engineering road.
It's so, it's so literary, or like, that you're not doing a creative thing, as far as
you're concerned, but what you're doing is drilling holes in spaceships.
Well, yeah, you're the kind of, you're the, you're the mechanic of space flights.
Well, that was interesting for like three months or two months, and now I'm just, I'm still
there.
You're feeling kind of like, like potential regret.
You're going like, oh, when they all, when they all put their lives on the line for their
art and their craft, meaning that they ate ramen noodles, and you know, they, you took
a more sensible path.
So now your reward is you're drilling these holes, and you're thinking about Tony, who,
who may or may not be fucking Natalie Portman, or whatever it is that he's doing, whatever
the fantasy is.
Oh, who's fucking?
Or just having a good time.
I don't, I don't mean to make it sound shallow, the fantasy.
I mean, because she's deep.
Um, the, the, so, so, I, I, well, I have, I have good news for you.
The amount of time that creatives spend doing nothing, even remotely creative, is like almost
equal to the amount of time that non creatives do.
Well, I know, I, I did spend four years doing nothing at all.
Like I could have spent that time writing, but I, I didn't.
Yeah.
But I, well, I mean, so, I mean, I guess what I'm saying is it's not too late.
You didn't miss anything.
Yeah.
And you're worried that, I think your concern might be that you would have to quit your
job because you can't, you can't drill a hole in the spaceship at the same time as you
write on a metal and notepad.
Uh, uh, what if a pickle, uh, uh, uh, met a big foot?
Um, but, but I, I just, I just did that at the same time as I was supposed to be entertaining
people, uh, which is, and for a lot of these people, this show has become like me drilling
holes in the spaceships.
Uh, but, but it becomes monotonous and quiet and, uh, uh, there's a lot of sweat involved.
Bringing boring people up to talk like me.
No, no, I think this is, this is, this is more interesting.
I look at the, uh, the, the mutual anxiety association going on.
Like I, I assume like, uh, as soon as you come up here, you seem so self assured.
Like, like, uh, you give me a patch from the spaceship you're working on.
You seem like you got your shit together.
Dan, I, we all assume has a shit together.
Spencer comes up here and nails it every time.
And it's just so funny to me that they're like to look at you people and people don't
assume that you guys haven't got it all together.
Like you, you, you can look at people and assume that you guys have it all like laid
out as long as you just said so, which it's, it's very, uh, it's, uh, eliminating and
crazy to like to find out that like, that you're, you know, like in a vortex of, uh,
anxiety right now.
It's a little deep down.
We believe in ourselves and believe we're great.
Like, you know, the journal entry, uh, you know, I believe in the whole like, yeah,
I was probably around a couple of thousands of years ago in some form spinning around
with electrons, blah, blah, blah, and I have my past memories.
But, um, as, I think as a dungeon master, I hate myself.
Make no mistake.
Do you really?
I don't know.
This is becoming my favorite harm and turn ever.
There's escape velocity in this show.
Dreampop is very melancholy.
Spencer and I both like it, but we do have our shit together.
We are happy people.
And, uh, I think that like, and Dino's like that too.
He listens to like Pink Floyd and like a really, really bitter, dark, sad, depressing stuff.
80% of my music at home is sad melancholy wallowing.
Because that's how we enjoy our, our, our, our great lives.
Like we go like, oh, who would have thought?
Yippee-ki-yay.
All the struggle.
Everything.
And I think that that's the, that's the feeling that people who are happy have kind of because
happy has to be in quotes and so does sad.
Because we've all met people who are kind of, who kind of enjoy being miserable.
You know, it's hard to put up.
We all have friends or hopefully not a lot of us are, have them as friends, but they're
like in your circle of friends.
You just kind of say about them like, yeah, he, he's, he's getting off on it.
He likes being, he likes his on wing.
Like he keeps saying that, you know, and, and, and, and like, but that's his thing.
That's how he's happy.
And I don't think that's you.
I think the good news for you is you're actually on the precipice of making yourself happy because
what's the first thing that's going to happen before you make yourself happy?
It's not going to be you being happy.
It's going to be you not being happy.
Otherwise the next thing wouldn't make any sense.
So you're, you're, you're drilling holes in spaceships.
You're, you're, you're raising your hand when someone says who feels this way or that way.
You're, you're answering and calls us that.
It's supposed to, well, it's easy.
It's fucking like, yeah, it's so is jumping off a cliff kind of.
So is, so is writing pickle meets a big foot.
So is, uh,
No, no, no.
The writing, the, the, okay.
You know, yeah.
This raising my hand and talking to you when the great role model, blah, blah, blah.
It's easy because it's following your bliss, so to speak.
It's doing what you feel like you really want to do to go home and write something and actually
stare at the paper, like, uh, sitting in a room alone with God, I think was a good metaphor.
You might have been blackout drunk.
Um, a jail cell.
Jail cell.
Sorry.
But, uh, yeah.
Cause God rapes you when you write.
If you're really good at it.
It's like, it's a, it's a violent procedure.
Don't we all feel like that?
Like, I mean, I mean.
Yeah.
Everyone feels like that.
And that's why I don't have a,
I think that people would, people would come to the show and sit in the back of a comic
book, uh, uh, uh, store and listen to the show.
I think we're all kind of here for some reason or other, but the idea, I think we all have
great aspirations, but also I think that we're not arrogant enough to assume that the world
owes it to us.
You know, I think there's probably in this room, like the mind power and the creativity
to do something like absolutely stupendous.
It's, it's, it's really interesting.
It's like, like, like a town, like a colony.
Like, yeah, like to sort of like form some colony, but like, like that's really like
from my vantage point, looking at Dan, Jesus, and Spencer and looking at like the brain
power and the sensitivity and the, uh, and the sensibilities, like it's very like it's
moving to me.
It's like I'm, I'm kind of choking up over here.
It's, it's very cool.
Well, let's do an experiment just because there is such a Baptist revival happening.
And, uh, you know, the, the, the, you know, God forbid that, that anyone leave and go,
well that got a little, uh, cultish.
Let's just commit to it.
We wallowed in a 15 year old's journal for a while and it brought out the 15 year old,
uh, aspirations and I think, and me, I think, I would, I would say probably in plenty of
ways.
And there's a, there's a, uh, a melancholy kind of, uh, Morrissey vibe going on in here,
but kind of a groovy way.
All right.
People of Harmontown, I'm going to ask you a series of questions and the answer is going
to be Jesus at the top of your lungs.
Who has the power to create?
Jesus!
Who has the power to make the earth a different shape?
Who is so entitled to happiness?
Wait.
I couldn't, I don't blame you, sir, because I kind of, I lost track of my thought.
Who is so entitled to happiness?
Wait.
That, that, that he's, uh, uh, uh, uh, did, you know what, I'm making the problem worse
because it's making it.
Who has a dick the size of Montana?
Jesus!
Who's dick is made of ink?
Who's penis is a mighty pen?
Jesus!
Who's dick will write life across the paper of the universe?
And who's dick writing will make all the women, and even me, God, that weep when they
read it?
Jesus!
Who has a recipe for buttermilk biscuits that will make you shit yourself?
Actually, yeah, no, not Jesus, we need to know that because we're having a...
Well, Rosa Parks, I just listened to a Greg Poops article where Rosa Parks had a, like,
a pancake recipe.
Oh, right, yeah.
Peanut butter?
Peanut butter, yeah.
Yeah, the peanut butter pancakes.
They're supposed to be fuck-around good pancakes, yeah.
Not only, uh, you know, one of the Godmothers of the Civil Rights Movement, she also had
a recipe for peanut butter pancakes that will wipe you out.
Yeah, but you know what?
Who would have been better at serving civil rights if he had been there than Rosa Parks?
Jesus!
Who's smarter than Einstein?
Who's better able to do accents on the fly than Robin Williams?
Jesus!
Prove it.
Who could go to SeaWorld, put his head in a whale tank, and just start babbling in dolphin
talk, and have the dolphins understand, even though they were in the wrong tank?
Pacers!
Alright, now, guys, give Spencer some now.
Spencer needs it most.
He's ill.
It's become a faith-healing tense right now.
Oh, but there's one over here that's having problems as well!
I sense the pain in his beard.
It grows from his face, but it hasn't detached.
He's holding his fears and thoughts.
What's wrong with you, young man?
Nothing.
Things.
He has things wrong with him, but I feel the power to get those things away.
Hallelujah.
I want to ask, where do those things go when they go away?
They go into...
Seattle.
Yeah, I know what's confusing.
Why would they go into Jesus?
Well, some of it's in Seattle.
You know, to enjoy those revivals, it actually takes a lot of work, I'm realizing.
They're not easy.
No, no.
Who has the power to do a good revival?
And Harvard.
Thank you.
Now that I'm good at doing revivals, who's going to have his things go away?
Who could take those things and write a little script about him?
Maybe a modern family speck in his spare time between drilling holes with spaceships or
even an original idea that would be really bad, and then he'd show it to his most trusted
friends, and they'd say, this is stupid, and he'd say, I know, but he'd wake up the next
day and he'd still be alive.
Shut up and tell.
I think it might be.
If you want to be a writer, you got to, you know, the first step is writing.
You already know that, but, you know, the...
Well, now I have to.
Yeah, now I have to.
What a lot of people can't accept is that it starts up being a really shitty writer,
and there is no way.
It reminds me of all the stuff I deleted.
Yeah, I kind of wish I could...
I think that's the nice thing about that thing is like, I was not a prodigy.
That was actually pretty...
Well, the embarrassing thing is like, this is pretty good, you know, like...
Well, there were bad things about it that got corrected over a long, long time, but
also, whatever, there's conflicting messages there.
One message is, it's never too late to start.
One message is, it could happen overnight, but not until you do it shitty for a while.
Another message is, like, it takes a long time, blah, blah, blah.
I mean, the only things that you can control are the things that you do the next day.
So, you're drilling a hole in a spaceship.
You know, I hope it doesn't have to come to a big decision to either, like, quit and
cast your life into chaos and better, because that's not really...
Writing as a...
Being creative as a crew, it doesn't really earn that.
Like, that's just something people do because they have to do it.
Like, it doesn't necessarily, like, need that as fuel.
You could actually conceivably, with enough concern about it, you could maybe drill some
holes in some spaceships and, like, Saturday or something, like, something.
Like, chip away at it.
Well, now that you've built up my confidence, I've been wanting to...
I had a dream where I played a 16-bit video game designed by you.
And I even played the beginning.
So, that's one thing I want you to do.
I want you to make it like a flash video game.
You should do it.
You know, you're better.
All right.
And that video game will be called...
Hey, Seuss!
All right.
That's not a real eyeball grabber.
Maybe we'll put some tits on the cover.
Jesus, the video game.
In 16 bits.
Wreck it, Jesus.
All right, it's Hey, Seuss, everybody.
Give him a hand.
I am a drink, maybe.
Spencer, do you feel any better?
Yeah, I'm feeling a lot better, you guys.
I don't get it.
Was that sarcasm or...?
I don't know.
Think of, like, the right thing.
You don't feel any better is what you're saying.
No, I feel better physically.
And mentally.
Is there anything Dan or I or the harmonians here tonight could do
to make you feel spiritually or psychically better tonight?
When you're subscribing to the podcast on iTunes
and writing incredible ratings, like five-star reviews,
take a tall glass of Kettle One and enjoy it.
All right, well, everybody, listen.
Keep your feet on the side of a tree.
Keep your hands on a dog.
And keep your eyes looking at the stars.
Well, one of them.
Keep your other eye looking at, like, a lizard
that will keep inspiring you
to make your eyes able to point two different directions.
Let me go back to your feet,
because I should do those up, too.
The first three toes are one of your feet.
And, honey, 15-year-old Dan, it's time for school.
It's time for school, Dan.
You dream the whole thing.
I dreamt I was a 40-year-old fat man
with a hot girlfriend,
which I really care about because I'm 17,
and I know he doesn't care about,
with a bunch of people that like him
and always laugh at everything he says.
Thank you for coming to Iron Town, everybody.
Thank you all for coming.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank you.
Hey, sis.
Spencer, everybody.
One more time for Spencer Crane.
I'm Jeff Davis.
Also, Katie Lathine, Zac McKeever, Emily Gordon,
Daniel Cramer, Dustin Marshall, Moe,
Fathelbab, Jenny Fine, and Shahruz Shaukat.
One more time for the mayor of Iron Town, Dan Harmon.
Don't do your neon light solution
for you, Jenny Do.
Thank you all.